<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en_US" lang="en_US">
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/twiki/pub/TWiki/HeadlinesPlugin/style.css" type="text/css" media="all" />
<title> March-22-2012 &lt; Council &lt; TWiki    </title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<link rel="icon" href="/twiki/pub/Council/WebPreferences/favicon.ico    " type="image/x-icon" />
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/twiki/pub/Council/WebPreferences/favicon.ico    " type="image/x-icon" />
<link rel="alternate" href="https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/edit/Council/March-22-2012?_T=16 Feb 2017" type="application/x-wiki" title="edit March-22-2012" />
<meta name="SCRIPTURLPATH" content="/bin" />
<meta name="SCRIPTSUFFIX" content="" />
<meta name="TEXT_JUMP" content="Jump" />
<meta name="TEXT_SEARCH" content="Search" />
<meta name="TEXT_NUM_TOPICS" content="Number of topics:" />
<meta name="TEXT_MODIFY_SEARCH" content="Modify search" />
<meta name="robots" content="noindex" /><link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" title="RSS Feed" href="/bin/view/Council/WebRss" />    
<base href="https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/March-22-2012"></base>
<!--BEHAVIOURCONTRIB--><script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/BehaviourContrib/behaviour.compressed.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikilib.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiWindow.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiEvent.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiHTML.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiCSS.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiForm.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/PatternSkin/pattern.js"></script><style type="text/css" media="all">
@import url('/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiTemplates/base.css');
</style><script type="text/javascript" src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiJavascripts/twikiStyles.js"></script><style type="text/css" media="all">


</style>
<style type="text/css" media="all">
@import url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/layout.css");
@import url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/style.css");
@import url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/colors.css");
@import url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/rounded_corners.css");
</style>
<style type="text/css" media="all">
	/* Styles that are set using variables */
	#patternLeftBar .patternWebIndicator,
	.patternBookView .twikiTopRow {
		background-color:#D0D0D0;
	}
	.patternBookView {
		border-color:#D0D0D0;
	}
	.patternPreviewPage #patternMain {
		/* uncomment to set the preview image */
		/*background-image:url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/PreviewBackground/preview2bg.gif    ");*/
	}
	
</style><style type="text/css" media="all">



</style>
<style type="text/css" media="all">
	@import url("/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/print.css");
</style><!--GOOGLEANALYTICSPLUGIN--><!-- Google Analytics script -->
<script type="text/javascript">
  var _gaq = _gaq || [];
  _gaq.push(['_setAccount', 'UA-69012-21']);
  _gaq.push(['_setDomainName', 'none']);
  _gaq.push(['_setAllowLinker', true]);
  _gaq.push(['_trackPageview']);
  (function() {
    var ga = document.createElement('script'); ga.type = 'text/javascript'; ga.async = true;
    ga.src = ('https:' == document.location.protocol ? 'https://ssl' : 'http://www') + '.google-analytics.com/ga.js';
    var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(ga, s);
  })();
</script>
</head>
<body class="patternViewPage patternPrintPage">
<a name="PageTop"></a>
<div id="patternScreen">
<div id="patternPageShadow">
<div id="patternPage">
<div id="patternOuter">
<div id="patternFloatWrap">
<div id="patternMain">
<div id="patternMainContents">
<div class="patternContent"><div class="patternTopic"> <h2 class="twikinetRoundedAttachments"><span class="twikinetHeader"><a name="OSG_Council_Face_to_Face_meeting"></a> OSG Council Face-to-Face meeting </span></h2> <ul>
<li> Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (<span class="twikiNewLink">ReadyTalk<a href="/bin/edit/Council/ReadyTalk?topicparent=Council.March-22-2012" rel="nofollow" title="ReadyTalk (this topic does not yet exist; you can create it)">?</a></span>)
</li> <li> Access Code: 3929264
</li> <li> Date: Thursday, March 22nd, 2012
</li> <li> Time: 1 PM Central  
</li> <li> Place: Holiday Inn Lincoln-Downtown, Lincoln, NE
</li></ul> 
<p />
<p /> <ul>
<li> Acceptance of last months minutes from <a href="https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/February-14-2012" target="_top">February 14 Teleconference</a>
</li></ul> 
<p /> <ul>
<li> Attending: Rob Quick, David Swanson, Richard Mount, Tom Hacker, Dan Fraser, Rick Snider, Ken Bloom; Miron Livny, Lothar, Bauerdick, Vicky White, Paul Avery, Keith Chadwick, Brad Abbot, Horst Severini, Piotr Sliz, Chander Seghal, Michael Ernst
</li> <li> Regrets: Bob Clare, Jerome Lauret, Steve Tuecke, Patrick Brady
</li></ul> 
<p />
<p />
<h2 class="twikinetRoundedAttachments"><span class="twikinetHeader"><a name="Agenda_Minutes"></a> <strong>Agenda/Minutes</strong> </span></h2>
<p />
<h3><a name="Announcements"></a> Announcements </h3>
<p /> <ul>
<li>  Welcome Lothar, new OSG Council Executive Director
</li> <li>  Thank you, Ruth, OSG Council Executive Director Ex Officio (6 year contribution as ED)
</li> <li>  Welcome Ken Bloom (Univ. of Nebraska), new representative for CMS software and Computing
</li></ul> 
<p />
<h3><a name="From_the_OSG_Council_Chairs"></a> From the OSG Council Chairs </h3>
<p /> <ul>
<li>  Status of <a href="https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/CouncilActionItems" target="_top">Action Items</a>
</li></ul> 
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong> Take concerns re: management structure to the Management team, if not resolved, bring to the Council. 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
GLOBUS funding running out, supplement to OSG grant until July 2012. Looking for a pared down funding source. Paul and Steve Tuecke working on a funding letter. (Steve is away for a few weeks)   <ul>
<li> File transfer mechanism of GLOBUS online closely related to <span class="twikiNewLink">GridFTP<a href="/bin/edit/Council/GridFTP?topicparent=Council.March-22-2012" rel="nofollow" title="GridFTP (this topic does not yet exist; you can create it)">?</a></span>- big factor in usage
</li> <li> Europeans have another year and a half of funding for GLOBUS Europe project – IGE - (running parallel to EMI -which also has another year and a half)
</li></ul> 
<p />
Questions: <ul>
<li> Cost to OSG if we assume these responsibilities (similar to Bestman discussions)?
</li> <li> How much overlap between funding agencies’ support for OSG, XSEDE and LIGO?
</li> <li> Job of Council Chair to broker joint NSF/EU funding for GLOBUS?
</li> <li> Will HEP put money into it, or just OCI?
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Paul_to_follow_up_with_Ru"></a> Action: Paul to follow up with Ruth and Steve T next week (March 26th-30th) regarding background issues, determine next steps to develop funding letter. </h4>
</font>
<p />
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
 iSGTW funded since 2005 by supplemental grants from various sources. Grew into international effort (2 FTEs paid by Europe, Asia ½ FTE paid by Taiwan) Bill Barnett PI, Rob and Paul Co-PI’s.
<p /> <ul>
<li> Given OSG budget cuts, looking for dedicated funding
</li> <li> Current US editor, Miriam Boon, around until June?
</li> <li> Interview new editor- Early draft of a proposal to base position at Indiana University (connections to both OSG &amp; XSEDE) written. Has to pass review. (Marv decision maker). 
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Add_Horst_back_on_to_iSGT"></a> Action: Add Horst back on to iSGTW newsletter list. (Ruth) (DONE) </h4>
<h3><a name="Engage_effort_Paul_Rick"></a> Engage effort- Paul/Rick </h3>
<p />
CIT proposal funding Engage has ended. First attempt to get funding failed. Operating on “no cost extension” funds. 
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
<p />
Ideas from the Council on how to secure funding?
<p /> <ul>
<li> Facilitate connection with XSEDE campus champion and OSG stakeholders. (How much of Engage activities should be under Campus activities?)
</li> <li> Change packaging approach? Some software people have expressed interest in working in OSG engagement capacity   *HEP prepared to support a certain amount of outreach if it supports physics interests?  
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Continue_discussion_re_En"></a> Action: Continue discussion re: Engage funding- high priority to develop campus strategy. (Executive Team) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Keep_Engage_as_a_standing"></a> Action: Keep Engage as a standing OSG Council Teleconference agenda item. (Paul/Rick) (DONE) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Follow_up_with_Executive"></a> Action: Follow up with Executive Team by April 1st. (Lothar) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Discuss_next_steps_for_In"></a> Action: Discuss next steps for International Outreach Program. <Only application Horst received was from Brazil, who couldn’t secure funds> (Council) </h4>
<p />
<p />
<h3><a name="Council_Chair_election_Rick"></a> Council Chair election- Rick </h3>
<p />
Ruth is the sole standing candidate and is on the council as ex officio Executive Director. Bylaws state “Council shall self-select a chair”. Rick and Paul will stay on (as CDF representative and Co-PI on an OSG grant.) Rick proposed moving up the Council Chair Election from 3/23 to 3/22. 
<p />
<h4><a name="Motions"></a> Motions: </h4>
<p />
1. Vote on whether Council can vote for Council Chair 3/22 versus 3/23  <ul>
<li> Motion carried unanimously by all present.
</li></ul> 
<p />
2. Vote whether non-members of council can be considered for election as Council Chair. 
 * Motion carried unanimously by all present.
<p />
3. To cancel the vote scheduled for 3/23
 * Motion carried unanimously by all present.
<p />
4. To obtain a statement from Ruth before conducting the Election via email -no later than by the next teleconference (April 10). 
 * Motion carried unanimously by all present.
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Modify_bylaws_to_clarify"></a> Action: Modify bylaws to clarify interpretation of active member standing.  (Paul/Rick) (DONE) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Update_bylaw_to_reflect_a"></a> Action: Update bylaw to reflect allowing non-members of council to be considered for election as Council Chair. (Paul/Rick) (DONE) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Obtain_email_statement_fr"></a> Action: Obtain email statement from Ruth and conduct vote 1 week after statement is circulated to the Council. (Paul/Rick) (DONE) </h4>
<p />
<h3><a name="Post_Mortem_for_AHM_All"></a> Post Mortem for AHM- All </h3>
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
<p /> <ul>
<li> Council thanked David and Ken for hosting the OSG All Hands and Council meetings.
</li> <li> Feedback/suggestions: <ul>
<li> Conduct program committee planning meetings earlier?
</li> <li> In the past, workshops delegated to CMS/ATLAS, this year more common sessions set up- feedback positive.
</li> <li> Clarify if hosting institution and leader is responsible for program as a whole or just getting venue, logistics etc. In the past, functions combined. Same approach for next AHM?  
</li> <li> Federated data session mostly CMS and Atlas talking to each other. How can we provide greater benefit to other VOs? Have a session for other VOs on using Federated data?
</li> <li> Not as much Diversity as in past sessions in terms of OSG communities. Suggest more representation from other communities.
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> Rob Q. made inquiries at Indiana University re: hosting next Face-to-Face at Indianapolis campus. Final approval from director level is still needed. 
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Try_to_get_a_commitment_f"></a> Action: Try to get a commitment for the next Face-to-Face location by next Council meeting. (Rob Q) </h4>
<h4><a name="Action_Modify_AHM_instructions_t"></a> Action: Modify AHM instructions to identify and delegate the two distinct roles of organizing logistics versus organizing the program. </h4>
<p />
<h3><a name="Report_on_status_of_OSG_core_pro"></a> Report on status of OSG core project and funding- Chander </h3>
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
<p /> <ul>
<li> An unallocated management reserve kept- not in the name of any one institution.  
</li> <li> Transition—process for NSF funding for next 5 years not completed--will take about 6 more weeks.  OSF next 5 years DOE funding for BNL and FNAL has been received (March financial plan) 
</li> <li> Bridge funding available for April/May to institutions in the next 5 year proposal. No need for bridge funding at Wisconsin (carryover) or BNL/FNAL (already received new DOE funding)
</li></ul> 
<p />
NOTE: DOE funding National labs, NSF funding universities. Current award does not include support from ASCR. DOE reviews not released until after funding. NSF gives reviews beforehand allowing ability to negotiate/ respond to reviews. DOE tells what do in different scenarios. 
<p /> <ul>
<li> 24% less of what asked for, 11% less than previous 5-year award. (Supports 26.3 FTE vs. 33.4 FTE request.) (Reduction impacts negotiated with DOE and NSF/ not replacing attrition).
</li> <li> Can run another 3 months with reserves we have. 
</li> <li> BNL and FNAL handled separately.  Budget shows reserve. (Not allocating reserve currently.) 
</li> <li> Lali wants to talk to Ruth/Lothar. NSF Miron. 
</li></ul> 
<p />
Impacts of Reductions- (Ruth the single point of contact)
<p /> <ul>
<li> Cut out international outreach
</li> <li> US editor contribution for iSGTW
</li> <li> Dedicated effort for user documentation- absorbed into software area/ all functional areas contribute.
</li> <li> Education- find a way to do- software area lead contribute to this effort.
</li> <li> Planned failover backup system for operations system- US-NCSA- not being addressed.
</li> <li> Reduced effort in certain areas i.e. assessment- slowing –not providing level of services
</li></ul> 
<p />
FUTURE STEPS- SOWS, detailed work plan for next year, kick off project work-program. <ul>
<li> Pursue satellite proposal submissions to fill in impacted work components.
</li> <li> iSGTW proposal to NSF- proposal to staff at IU
</li> <li> Explore ASCR support possibilities?
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<h3><a name="Executive_Director_Transition_pl"></a> Executive Director Transition planning - Lothar </h3>
<p /> <ul>
<li> Two-month transition period begins next week 3/26. (Shorter than foreseen in bylaws). 
</li></ul> 
<p />
<p />
<h3><a name="Collaboratories_workshop_report"></a> Collaboratories workshop report and next steps - Richard, all </h3>
<p />
Workshop report: <a href="https://indico.bnl.gov/conferenceDisplay.py?confild=403" target="_top">https://indico.bnl.gov/conferenceDisplay.py?confild=403</a>
<p />
Rich Carlson volunteered Richard Mount for the Collaboratories Workshop (half-scale) Dec. 6-7, 50 participants from Science, Facilities CS &amp; Feds. Workshop continued via 6 phone meetings- 20 participants.
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
<p /> <ul>
<li> Discussions regarding allocation of 1 1/2 million dollars over 3 years. 
</li> <li> NSF putting half million dollars into conceptualization (seed money to figure out what really want to do. Work on a small fraction of what people might do overall- use as a good model for expansion in the future). 
</li></ul> 
<p />
Recommendations:
<p />
Technologies for team, data and processing (3 categories) dimensions chosen.  
<p />
1. Create an Institute for Extreme-Scale Collaborative Science (OSG is a successful example)
<p />
2. Fund relevant Computer Science
<p />
3. Fund relevant development, consolidation, and support of software and services.
<p />
Less Technical Issues
<p /> <ul>
<li> Have integrated approach, lifecycle of software products, range of computer science R&amp;D—way funded to be supported/maintained. (gap in coordination)
</li> <li> Basic energy sciences and HEP should get together.
</li></ul> 
<p />
Feedback on Strategy to move forward:
<p /> <ul>
<li> 4.7 million dollars of ASCR funds- read report and treat as a solicitation.  (BES)
</li> <li> Institutes should focus on improvement of BESS to BESS collaboration and BESS to HEP. (HEP to HEP already good).
</li> <li> Funding benefitting a single science (wants benefits more widely across office of science).
</li> <li> OSG should not be a lead on any proposal but should provide coordination. Expectation is OSG only org. that knows how to handle collaboration. 
</li> <li> Networking more Thomas N. collaboration more Rich Carlson. 
</li> <li> Rich wants to see linked with exascale computers- exascale as a touch point—Richard M. tried to verify OK to take extreme scale, big facilities in addition to big data, leadership class computers.
</li> <li> ASCR solicitation could add to the program OSG needs to do- broadening other communities to make use of the program. Maps well to OSG (Rich’s solicitation) but it doesn’t map to this proposal. 
</li> <li> 1 million per year upper part of program. If get matching funds from Lali, ask Rich C.
</li> <li> Identify the things that are part of our vision for moving forward, articulate it, if going to proposal, associate w/ OSG.
</li> <li> Bring in light sources groups, at institute level or any of the software, biologist doing structure stuff, using <span class="twikiNewLink">GlideinWMS<a href="/bin/edit/Council/GlideinWMS?topicparent=Council.March-22-2012" rel="nofollow" title="GlideinWMS (this topic does not yet exist; you can create it)">?</a></span>.
</li> <li> DOE- large-scale computing facilities, frame as moving data in and out, preparing for the big facilities. OSG strength is helping people with computing around the data. Partner w/ GLOBUS online to give a complete solution? Question of size- 5 FTEs total. Globus online owns the data part. OSG would own the compute part/ provisioning? 
</li> <li> XSEDE very much NSF. OSG bridge to small scale science community. Technological bridge. Current thinking is bigger, assumption is that there’s a community of users that need that, working to grow to that level- outline role OSG plays. 
</li> <li> Make user experience more uniform- facilitate access to leadership class machines. 
</li> <li> Need partnership outside of physics.
</li></ul> 
<p />
</font>
<p />
<p />
<h4><a name="Action_Add_to_Friday_s_agenda_Un"></a> Action: Add to Friday's agenda: Understand what OSG does not have funded and what it needs funded right now and how to fit in this proposal. (DONE) </h4>
<p />
<p />
<h3><a name="OSG_and_XSEDE"></a> OSG and XSEDE </h3> <ul>
<li> Overview of aspirations (Lothar); OSG and the XSEDE Service Provider Forum (Miron); and OSG as an XSEDE provider (Chander): 
</li></ul> 
<p />
<font color="#0000ff"> <strong>minutes</strong>
<p /> <ul>
<li> XSEDE focuses on large scale parallel operations and has higher capability machines, need users with code mature enough to expand into these machines. 
</li></ul> 
OSG occupies space in ecosystem between desktop serial jobs and expensive high-end , high throughput systems. Helps users go from single processor up to expensive machines with good switches— from tasks that require 10K hours to those that require 1 million. <ul>
<li> OSG/XSEDE more of a relationship. Not a completely reciprocal level of respect but much progress noted. OSG has to maintain the difference. (Issue is 4 sides who are fighting about who will get the next funding/ the same fixed pot. If one gets someone will lose. 
</li></ul> 
XSEDE Setup <ul>
<li> OSG has an XSEDE pilot ID. Users will come in under a group called XSEDE under the OSG VO.( GLOW is not running at Fermi nor is XSEDE. Issue involves extra pain of getting a certificate.)
</li></ul> 
Allocation <ul>
<li> Adding a field in Gratia, “Allocation identifier”. For XSEDE jobs, will allow us to see how many hours spent on an allocation, to account for the allocation. One user id could have 2 different projects, so 2 different allocation identifiers.  Can then go into XSEDE and get an abstract. (Not a security measure, an accounting measure.) 
</li> <li> Suggestion to associate with a particular type of science, being able to validate i.e. science executables. (Security- much more concerned about DMs than supporting signed executables.) 
</li> <li> Resource allocation committee- allocate resources for opportunistic use.
</li> <li> XRAC (XSEDE Resource Allocation Committee) if through review process- makes sure computational approach is good. Not everything goes through them.  
</li> <li> Users can submit a request, get cycles and use as citizens of OCI landscape. Excess capacity ideally available to scientists.  
</li></ul> 
OSG can help: <ul>
<li> Write proposals.
</li> <li> With the allocation process. 
</li> <li> At campus champions level, help steer users to XSEDE. 
</li> <li> Researchers who want to start using a Super Computer. (Can request 200K hours- most likely granted.)
</li></ul> 
<p />
Questions <ul>
<li> Where do opportunistic cycles come from? Will we have enough of them? Will we have to deal with capacity issue one day?
</li> <li> We know who is running a job, but do we know what is running? What is the traceability of the system being designed? 
</li> <li> We can do accounting at sites, we have a way to explain if somebody asks what’s running on the site (not always trivial), what ran yesterday or last week, which VO rather quickly.  Can find out user detail from Gratia and trace who submitted a job with GL exec. (sites wanting more information will have to work with the VOs.) 
</li> <li> Cycles we provide to XSEDE, we get back from XSEDE?
</li> <li> Any users ready to use XSEDE resources? (Yes, three)
</li> <li> If you have a new software release do you have to register it?
</li> <li> XSEDE limit of hours per day? <OSG annual 1/3 or ¼ of what XSEDE is doing? 570 million, 14 billion units (CPU hours) allocated OSG has 2 billion>
</li></ul> 
<p />
Review paths:
<p />
1. Submit a proposal and get funded to do the science. 
<p />
2. Go to resource allocation committee and get X hours- ranked based on whether your computational approach is sound and have experience using these machines. (If you get X hours, you get results.)
<p />
3. Submit a proposal and get a start-up allocation (sample amount to prove your algorithms and then have to request development funds)
<p />
Next steps: <ul>
<li> For first round, come up with number of hours we could successfully provide i.e. 2 million cores, multiply out to be (OSG running 70-80K cores per day).
</li> <li> Exploratory discussion not presenting a plan--- goal of what to provide to XSEDE. Better and more coordinated answers, proposal to audit, review process, have lab look at this.  <Lothar taking as input>
</li> <li> OSG Management- determine what matches in terms of request for resources, technologies, what is good science?
</li></ul> 
<p />
<p />
</font>
<p />
<h2 class="twikinetRoundedAttachments"><span class="twikinetHeader"><a name="ACTION_ITEMS"></a> ACTION ITEMS </span></h2>
<p />
1.Paul to follow up with Ruth and Steve T next week (March 26th-30th) regarding background issues, determine next steps to develop funding letter.
<p />
2. Continue discussion re: Engage funding- high priority to develop campus strategy. (Executive Team)
<p />
3. Keep Engage as a standing OSG Council Teleconference agenda item. (Paul/Rick) (DONE)
<p />
4. Follow up with Executive Team by April 1st. (Lothar)
<p />
5. Discuss next steps for International Outreach Program. <Only application Horst received was from Brazil, who couldn’t secure funds> (Council)
.
6. Modify bylaws to clarify interpretation of active member standing.  (Paul/Rick) (DONE)
<p />
7. Update bylaw to reflect allowing non-members of council to be considered for election as Council Chair. (Paul/Rick) (DONE)
<p />
8. Obtain email statement from Ruth and conduct vote 1 week after statement is circulated to the Council. (Paul/Rick) (DONE)
<p />
9. Try to get a commitment for the next Face-to-Face location by next Council meeting. (Rob Q)
<p />
10. Modify AHM instructions to identify and delegate the two distinct roles of organizing logistics versus organizing the program. 
<p />
<p />
<p />
<p />
<p />
<p />
<p />
-- <a href="/bin/view/Main/KimberlyMyles" class="twikiLink">KimberlyMyles</a> - 03 Apr 2012</div><!-- /patternTopic-->
<p />
<p />
</div><!-- /patternContent-->
<hr />
This topic: Council<span class='twikiSeparator'>&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;</span><a href="/bin/view/Council/WebHome" class="twikiCurrentWebHomeLink twikiLink">WebHome</a><span class='twikiSeparator'>&nbsp;&gt;&nbsp;</span>March-22-2012</span> <br />    
Topic revision: r6 - 02 May 2012 - 21:46:46 - <a href="/bin/view/Main/KimberlyMyles" class="twikiLink">KimberlyMyles</a>
</div><!-- /patternMainContents-->
</div><!-- /patternMain-->
</div><!-- /patternFloatWrap-->
<div class="clear">&nbsp;</div>
</div><!-- /patternOuter--><div id="patternBottomBar"><div id="patternBottomBarContents"><div id="twikinetBadge"><a href="http://www.twiki.net/"><img src="https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiNetSkin/twiki-badge-88x31.gif" alt="TWIKI.NET" width="88" height="31" border="0" /></a></div><!--/twikinetBadge--><div id="patternWebBottomBar"><p>
<font size="-1">
TWiki |
<a href="https://ticket.grid.iu.edu/goc/twiki">Report Bugs</a> |
<a href="https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Operations/IUPrivacyPolicy">Privacy Policy</a>
</p>
<p>
<font size="-2">
<span class="twikiRight"> <a href="http://twiki.org/"><img src="/twiki/pub/TWiki/TWikiLogos/T-logo-80x15.gif" alt="This site is powered by the TWiki collaboration platform" width="80" height="15" title="This site is powered by the TWiki collaboration platform" border="0" /></a></span>Copyright by the contributing authors. All material on this collaboration platform is the property of the contributing authors..
</font>
</p></div><!--/patternWebBottomBar--></div><!-- /patternBottomBarContents--></div><!-- /patternBottomBar-->
</div><!-- /patternPage-->
</div><!-- /patternPageShadow-->
</div><!-- /patternScreen-->
</body></html>
<p />